README.md, before:

# 8th Light Application - Kristina Jaggard

This is a command line application that allows you to search the [Google Books API](https://developers.google.com/books/docs/overview) and create a reading list.

## 🏁 Getting started

These instructions assume that you have already downloaded [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) and [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/) and that you have a basic understanding of [the command line](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/command-line-commands). 🕺

1. Open up your terminal and clone this repository in a location of your choosing.

`git clone https://github.com/teenie-quaggard/google-books-api.git`

2. Navigate into the folder google-books-api folder.
   `cd google-books-api`

3. Install the project dependencies by running `npm i` from within the google-books-api folder.

For more information about the project dependencies, please see the "Dependencies" section below.

## 🤷 How to

After installing the project dependencies, you will be able to open the command line programme by typing the command `books-cli` into your terminal. You'll need to start your command with `books-cli` every time you want to access the programme.

From within the programme, there are a number of main commands:

### Search command:

**`books-cli search --keyword yourKeywordHere`**

Use this command followed by a space, the `--keyword` flag and a search phrase to return five books related to your query.

If your seach term is one word you can use it as is; if your search is made up of multiple words, wrap your phrase in quotation marks.

For example:
`books-cli search --keyword dogs`
`books-cli search --keyword 'dog diets'`

Your results will contain five books, including a title, author and publisher, as well as a unique ID.

If you would like to save a book to your reading list, you will need to use that ID.

### Save command

##### `books-cli save --id`

After you've made a search, select and copy the ID of the book you'd like to save to your reading list.

On a Mac, you can highlight the ID and copy it using the command `Command-C`. On a PC, use the command `Ctrl C`.

Use the save command followed by a space and the ID of the book you'd like to save to your reading list.

For example:
`books-cli save --id PLcNhqWr7VcC`

- This example command will save a book called _Dinner for Dogs_ by Henrietta Morrison to your reading list.

### List command

##### `books-cli list`

This command will print any books saved to your reading list to your console.

### Help command

##### `books-cli help` or `book-cli -h`

This command displays a menu which lists available commands.

### Version command

##### `` books-cli version` or `books-cli -v ``

This command displays the current verion of the programme.

## 🙋🏻‍Things I learned

### The `bin` file

This process taught me how to use a `bin` file to run my programme when using the command `books-cli`.

### Always read the docs carefully!

I started the project by getting an API key from Google Books and by installing and configuring the dependency dotenv. What I noticed a few days later, was that given that I was only making get requests, I didn't need to use a key. The lesson here is to not make assumptions and check out the documentation first!

### Local storage

My initial thoughts were to use local storage to save the user's reading list. In this process, I learned that local storage is only available the the browser side! Instead, I familiarised myself with the fs Node Module!

### Mocking external modules - Axios

This was the first time that I learned how to mock modules with Jest. I've only really scratched the surface here.

## 🤔 Things I struggled with

The biggest thing I struggled with was creating tests for the functions that use the 'fs' node module (`utils/printReadingList.js` & `utils/addBookToReadingList.js`).

The Jest docs taught me how to create a mock file system, but I had trouble mocking fs.readFile, especially when my function was not actually returning anything, it was just creating a console.log.

## 🧘🏻‍Stretch goals

- Programmatically save items (not using a copy and paste method, but being able to select an item in the list by index or other selector)
- Remove items from reading list
- Search by author
- Search by title

## 🛠 Dependencies

### [Axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios)

- used to simplify HTTP requests & automatically parse JSON

### [Minimist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/minimist)

- allows us to parse arguments in our command line

### [Ora](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ora)

- simple loading spinner to give our command line programme a bit of flair!

### [Jest](https://jestjs.io/en/)

- a JavaScript testing framework

## Helpful Resources:

https://timber.io/blog/creating-a-real-world-cli-app-with-node/

https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fs_fs_readfile_path_options_callback

https://developers.google.com/books/docs/v1/using

Commit message:

include test script in readme

README.md, after:

# 8th Light Application - Kristina Jaggard

This is a command line application that allows you to search the [Google Books API](https://developers.google.com/books/docs/overview) and create a reading list.

## 🏁 Getting started

These instructions assume that you have already downloaded [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) and [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/) and that you have a basic understanding of [the command line](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/command-line-commands). 🕺

1. Open up your terminal and clone this repository in a location of your choosing.

`git clone https://github.com/teenie-quaggard/google-books-api.git`

2. Navigate into the folder google-books-api folder.
   `cd google-books-api`

3. Install the project dependencies by running `npm i` from within the google-books-api folder.

For more information about the project dependencies, please see the "Dependencies" section below.

## 🤷 How to

After installing the project dependencies, you will be able to open the command line programme by typing the command `books-cli` into your terminal. You'll need to start your command with `books-cli` every time you want to access the programme.

From within the programme, there are a number of main commands:

### Search command:

**`books-cli search --keyword yourKeywordHere`**

Use this command followed by a space, the `--keyword` flag and a search phrase to return five books related to your query.

If your seach term is one word you can use it as is; if your search is made up of multiple words, wrap your phrase in quotation marks.

For example:
`books-cli search --keyword dogs`
`books-cli search --keyword 'dog diets'`

Your results will contain five books, including a title, author and publisher, as well as a unique ID.

If you would like to save a book to your reading list, you will need to use that ID.

### Save command

##### `books-cli save --id`

After you've made a search, select and copy the ID of the book you'd like to save to your reading list.

On a Mac, you can highlight the ID and copy it using the command `Command-C`. On a PC, use the command `Ctrl C`.

Use the save command followed by a space and the ID of the book you'd like to save to your reading list.

For example:
`books-cli save --id PLcNhqWr7VcC`

- This example command will save a book called _Dinner for Dogs_ by Henrietta Morrison to your reading list.

### List command

##### `books-cli list`

This command will print any books saved to your reading list to your console.

### Help command

##### `books-cli help` or `book-cli -h`

This command displays a menu which lists available commands.

### Version command

##### `` books-cli version` or `books-cli -v ``

This command displays the current verion of the programme.

## 🤖 Run some test!

To run tests, write the following command in your terminal:

`npm test`

## 🙋🏻‍ Things I learned

### The `bin` file

This process taught me how to use a `bin` file to run my programme when using the command `books-cli`.

### Always read the docs carefully!

I started the project by getting an API key from Google Books and by installing and configuring the dependency dotenv. What I noticed a few days later, was that given that I was only making get requests, I didn't need to use a key. The lesson here is to not make assumptions and check out the documentation first!

### Local storage

My initial thoughts were to use local storage to save the user's reading list. In this process, I learned that local storage is only available the the browser side! Instead, I familiarised myself with the fs Node Module!

### Mocking external modules - Axios

This was the first time that I learned how to mock modules with Jest. I've only really scratched the surface here.

## 🤔 Things I struggled with

The biggest thing I struggled with was creating tests for the functions that use the 'fs' node module (`utils/printReadingList.js` & `utils/addBookToReadingList.js`).

The Jest docs taught me how to create a mock file system, but I had trouble mocking fs.readFile, especially when my function was not actually returning anything, it was just creating a console.log.

## 🧘🏻‍ Stretch goals

- Programmatically save items (not using a copy and paste method, but being able to select an item in the list by index or other selector)
- Remove items from reading list
- Search by author
- Search by title

## 🛠 Dependencies

### [Axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios)

- used to simplify HTTP requests & automatically parse JSON

### [Minimist](https://www.npmjs.com/package/minimist)

- allows us to parse arguments in our command line

### [Ora](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ora)

- simple loading spinner to give our command line programme a bit of flair!

### [Jest](https://jestjs.io/en/)

- a JavaScript testing framework

## Helpful Resources:

https://timber.io/blog/creating-a-real-world-cli-app-with-node/

https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fs_fs_readfile_path_options_callback

https://developers.google.com/books/docs/v1/using
